So, to make React Chrome Extension, the first thing you have to do is to go to the link given to you.
And there you will get a GitHub page.
Here you will see a code button of green color in which the code will be written.
You have to click on it.
And you have to download it by clicking on the download zip written below.
So, what is this? Let's understand this first.
And before that, let's know what is Chrome Extension.
So, see, you download any app on your phone.
So, why do you download the app?
You have to do any task, then only you use that app.
For example, if you want to book a ticket, then you will download the ticket booking app.
After that, if you want to play a game, then you will download the app to play a game.
After that, if you want to watch cricket, then you will download the app for that.
So, these things are the same, they are utilities.
Similarly, Chrome Extension is also a utility by which you can do some things in Chrome-based browsers.
For example, let me show you.
When you will go to Chrome and search Web Store.
And after searching Web Store, you will go here.
So, this is a Play Store to download Chrome extensions.
Consider it like this.
Here you will get a lot of extensions.
You will get a variety of extensions which you can download and use.
For example, this is an extension called Volume Master.
By downloading this, you can use it to run your videos in Chrome, YouTube videos.
So, you can increase their volume.
If your speaker is not making much sound, then you can increase it.
Similarly, this is a Speed Text Extension.
This is a Scientific Calculator.
So, these are a lot of extensions.
You can install them.
You can install and use them.
So, here we are also making a Chrome Extension.
And you know that this Chrome Extension can summarize the content of any web page and tell you.
So, what do you have to do for this?
First of all, you have to go to your Downloads.
And we have already downloaded it in Downloads.
You have to click on it.
And first of all, I want to transfer this thing from here which I have downloaded in the desktop.
This is called React Extension Boilerplate.
You will get this zip file.
You will extract it.
So, you will get something like this.
You have to put it in the desktop.
And once it is copied in the desktop.
I am going to the desktop.
And here we will see this.
You open it.
And first of all, we will open it in VSCode.
So, open with VSCode.
After opening in VSCode.
Here we will get the basic directory structure.
Now, why did we need to download the file here?
See, when we create our React App.
So, what we used to write?
npx create React App.
So, all these directories used to be created automatically.
But in our Chrome Extension, we need some additional folders and files.
So, where does that come from?
You can't get that from the npx create React App.
So, that's why we have to open it.
So, that's why we have already created those things and given it to you.
And this is universal.
If you will create any extension in the future.
So, you can use this in that.
You don't have to do everything from the beginning.
Because this becomes a very difficult task.
And you don't need to understand it in the belief.
I mean, to understand what is happening.
How is the structure?
For example, what are these additional files?
Because they don't have that much work.
So, what will we do first?
We will go and see what is in the source folder.
In the source, we will get some such files.
In which there will be a public folder also.
In which this will happen.
After this, we will have a pop-up file.
In this, whatever code we will write.
Whatever we will see.
As soon as we open the extension, it will be in it.
What will happen in the background file?
That things will be running in any background.
See the Chrome Extension.
In Chrome Extension, some things work in the background too.
So, we will write that in it.
In the content script, we can put some additional things.
Which we want to do with Chrome Extension.
So, now we don't need it in this project.
And it is not that important.
Now, after this, let's see the app.tsx in the pop-up.
So, this is exactly like our index.js.
Which was in our React app.
Because in this, we will render our other components.
Like here, we have rendered a pop-up component on it.
Now, what is the pop-up component?
Let's see it.
In this, we have basic hello-word text.
When you open the extension, you will see hello-word.
So, in this pop-up, we will put basic text.
So, after this, there are some other things.
For now, let's remove it.
These are some codes.
Let's remove it.
I will save it.
Now, after this.
Have you seen this much?
Now, after this, let's come to the public folder.
In public, there is a file called manifest.json.
This is a very important file for your Chrome Extension.
Because in this, we write all the meta-data of Chrome Extension.
That is, we write all the details of Chrome Extension in it.
And these details go to Chrome.
And it verifies what Chrome Extension wants to do.
What permissions does it need?
Right?
And what are the things?
All of them are defined here.
So, now you must have understood this much.
So, now, basically, you have to see what is written here.
It is written as manifest version 3.
So, this manifest.json.
Its version is third.
That is, manifest file was basically in different versions.
That is, there were different styles to write it.
We used to define it in different versions.
Before this, there used to be version 2 of manifest.
So, now it is a very different thing.
So, now you must have understood it.
Here we tell what is the name of our extension?
What is the version?
What is the description?
Which icon do we want to use?
Right?
What permissions will our Chrome Extension take?
For example, tomorrow you need the permission of the user to show the notification to the user.
So, you have to specify it here.
And this is the permission of the active app.
So, maybe we will know more about this.
In the background, we tell that background.json.
What are the background files?
What will it run in the background?
So, we have told here that background.js will run.
Which is here in our background script.
So, these are some of the things.
Now here you must be seeing that this minimum chrome version is supported.
So, there should be 92 chrome minimum version to run this extension.
Then where will this content file run?
So, now we are not using so much content file.
So, we do not need it.
And these are some other things.
So, these are also additional.
After this, you will see one thing.
Here you will see the file extension.
Which is .tsx.
What is this?
So, basically .tsx extension is of TypeScript.
What is TypeScript?
TypeScript is also basically similar to JavaScript.
TypeScript was developed by Microsoft.
And in TypeScript, you get a little more additional feature than JavaScript.
A little more.
So, basically it is exactly the same.
You do not need to worry at all.
Everything is exactly the same.
Like you used to write your JSX.
In the same way, you must be writing TSX also.
Because you must have seen here that we are writing the components exactly the same.
You must not have understood any difference.
So, these are some things.
So, now what will we do first?
We will go to our folder where our extension is.
We will see that first.
So, this is our desktop.
You have to go here first.
Here you have to write CMD first.
CMD.
After this, you have to write npm install.
What will happen with npm install?
The important packages will be installed.
Now, till the time it is being installed, I would like to tell you some more things.
As you can see here.
These are some webpack files.
Something written by webpack.
It configures your Chrome extension.
That means everything will be defined here.
That how everything will run in Chrome extension.
Where everything is kept.
Everything will be here.
So, if you think that you make everything from the beginning.
So, you have to do all these things by yourself.
Which is a very time-taking task.
Now, here are some more things.
Like.
Here you must have seen.
In our manifest.json.
We have called here .js.
Background.js.
After this, you must be seeing here.
This background script is our typescript file.
It is .ts.
So, why have we written .js here?
So, basically what will happen?
That whatever we have written react.
We will compile all this first.
We will build it.
And then it will give us a build folder.
And in it.
These typescript files.
These typescript files will be converted automatically in js for you.
You will not have to do anything.
So, you are seeing the wonder of this.
How much your work has been made efficient.
So, let's see here.
It must have been installed once.
Which is done.
Here our installation is completed.
You clear it first.
And here you will write npm run dev.
What will happen with this?
The development server of our chrome extension will start.
As we used to do for our react app.
So, first of all, it builds the chrome extension.
And generates a folder named dist.
See here.
You must be seeing here.
A folder named dist.
Which has been generated automatically.
In it, all the files.
See here.
background.js
All these are written in this type.
So, you can see here.
All the things are made in this type.
It has been generated automatically.
So, you must be able to see all this.
Now what do we do?
First of all, we go to our chrome.
And now how do we see this chrome extension?
So, what you have to do?
You have to open a new tab in chrome.
Here you have to write.
Chrome slash extensions.
Chrome colon slash slash extensions.
All the extensions that will be installed from it.
You will see all of them here.
Now what you have to do here.
Here at the top right.
There will be a developer mode.
If it is off.
Then you have to turn it on first.
After that.
Here you have to go to load unpacked.
And go to the desktop.
Where your folder is.
First of all, you have to open it.
And this will be the folder by dist.
This will be the built folder by dist.
You have to click on it and click on the select folder.
As soon as you do this.
You will see here.
You will get an extension called Web Summarizer AI.
Now if you want to see this extension in chrome.
What do you have to do for that?
You have to see in the top right.
There will be an extension button.
At the very top.
Where my cursor is.
You have to click there.
And this Web Summarizer AI.
There will be a pin option next to it.
You have to pin it.
So at the very top.
You will see your extension.
Now as soon as you click on it.
So your extension opens immediately.
And here your first react extension.
The basic structure of it looks like this.
Now we will see further.
How we can put further functionality in it.
How we can put the summarize of the content web page.
How to use OpenAI Chat GPT API.
We will see all this.
But if this much is done.
Then congratulations.
You have made your first Chrome extension.